at a video game arcade in 1982 with his
friend will cooper
thirteen-year-old sam brenna discovers
he can master the games by spotting
patterns
participating in a video game
championship he loses in a match with
obnoxious arcade player ready the fire
blaster plant in donkey kong
a video cassette with footage of the
event is included in a time capsule that
is launched into space
in the present day brenner has become an
installer of home theater systems while
cooper is the disliked president of the
united states in guam
a u.s military base is besieged by an
extraterrestrial force attacking in the
form of gallagher that turn pieces of
the base into small glowing cubes and
one of the soldiers is abducted
brenner works at the home of divorcee
and u.s army lieutenant colonel violet
van patten
but the two are separately summoned to
the white house upon seeing the video
footage and meeting with ludlow the
wonder kid lamasoff
a friend he made at the video game
tournament brenner determines the aliens
have found the video cassette images to
be a declaration of war and are
attacking with technology based on the
games featured at the championship
this is affirmed when the aliens
interrupt a television broadcast using
footage from the cassette
challenging earth to a battle where if
the aliens win three rounds
they will conquer earth brenner and
cooper are unable to stop one of the
attacks as arcanoid paddles sling balls
of light to destroy the taj mahal
and a bystander is abducted brenner and
ludla train navy seals to play the old
games
violet develops light cannons that are
effective against the aliens
in london the aliens after declaring it
as the where's the beef
lady attack hyde park in the form of the
video game centipede but as the soldiers
are unable to beat them
brenner and ludlow step in and shoot
them down following the victory
the alien sent congratulations and a
trophy in the form of the dog from duck
hunt to an old woman
who appeared earlier at the london
attack ludlow and cooper retrieve eddie
who had been serving a prison sentence
for fraud in new york city
the team discovers it must participate
as the ghosts against pacman
torui woodtani the creator of pac-man
tries to confront him
but he gets his hand bitten off and
flees using modified mini cooper cars
brenner ludlow and eddie overcome the
task but violet notices that something
about eddie is off
as he moved at supersonic speeds around
the board
they win cubette as a trophy later
during a celebratory party however
the aliens declare that someone cheated
and the challenge for the planet has
been forfeited
violet's son matty discovers eddie as
the perpetrator
having used a speed cheat eddie flees
while matty is abducted by the aliens
the aliens launch a massive attack using
characters from all sorts of classic
video games in washington dc
cooper joins the team while ludlow stays
to fight
an alien takes the form of lady lisa a
character on whom ludlow had a crush
since childhood
ludlow persuades lady lisa to choose
love and she sides with the humans
eddie wishing to make amends returns to
fight as well
brenner violet and cooper are summoned
to the aliens mothership where they face
the alien leader who takes the form of
donkey kong on the game's starting level
with the aliens captives at the top
as the group dodges barrels and
fireballs brenner feels depressed and
loses hope
until matty reveals eddie's cheating to
him thus restoring his confidence
and brenna eventually throws a hammer to
defeat donkey kong
the alien's characters then
self-destruct
the team is hailed as heroes and a peace
agreement is reached with the aliens
eddie apologizes to brenner for his
cheating and although ludlow is saddened
that lady lisa is gone
cubert transforms its likeness to lady
lisa
brenner and violet become a couple while
eddie gets to meet serena williams and
martha stewart
the aliens also restore what danny's
hand before their departure
a year later lady lisa and ludlow get
married and have cuber children